Let's start talking about Kyuss, firstly, a coup that's a collection used generally for holding elements
prior to processing, the Q is usually ordered first in, first out.
The first element is the head of the Q The last element is the tailor.
The Q A priority.
Q is one exception.
A key element is normally accessed by retrieving and removing the first element in the Q and by adding
an element to the end of the Q.
The Q usually does not allow null elements and a Q also does allow duplicate elements.
The humidify extends collection, but provides additional methods for insertion, removal and inspection
as shown in the table here.
You can say you've got an admitted passing E that inserts and it returns, true or false or the legal
stat exception.
And that's the element to the back of CU offer with ease.
An argument is also an insert term value is true or false, and it also adds the element to the back
of the queue.
We've got an element, method, call, trace the element.
The returned value is the head element or exception if accepted and obviously doesn't remove.
We've got peak, but also does retreat and doesn't do a remove, and it returns the hit element or another
for QST, we've got the removed method, which both retrieves and removes the hit element or throws
an exception if accepted.
And finally, we've got poll that method both retrieves and removes and returns the hidden element or
null ifukube empty.
Most Java implementations also implement deck, which is a double standard queue, so discuss the interface
here as well.
So Dick is a double standard cue for a linear collection of elements, tech support, insertion and
removal of the elements of both endpoints.
The head in the tail dick can be used as first in, first out cues, but also as last in, first out
stacks.
The JDK has predefined classes like a ray dick and initialised which implement the interface and extends
the cue interface.
And as I mentioned above, note that the techie device can be used both as a last in first out stack
and a first in first Accu.
Take extends cable provides additional methods for insertion, removal, inspection as listed in the
table.
We've got push per second element, a dozen insert button values void and it adds the element of the
head of the key Bozak up pop that both retrieves and removes and actually removes the first element
of the Q and returns that as well.
We've got at first passing element and at last they both insert obviously depending on the method or
B where it's actually added and after first off, the last instead of returning void, it would return.
True or false.
Both I get first and get last with a solid argument, retrieves the first or last element and doesn't
remove it, it also throws an exception of the Qs empty.
We've got pick first and pick last with the relevant argument past retrieved and obviously doesn't remove.
And again, the return value is the first of the last element, but also another.
If a Q is empty as opposed to an exception, forget first and get lost.
But you've got remove first to remove last, which does retrieve the removal.
Return value is the first or last element or an exception if it is empty.
And again, it removes the spoiler for turning.
We've got Paul first and Paul last again with a past retreat and removes the relevant element, i.e.
the first or last element.
But this time and now would return to the empty.
In addition, Deck includes two additional methods to remove first carrots, which removes and surprisingly,
the first occurrence of a specified element if it exists, returns true if the elements are removed
and we've also got removed last occurrence, which removes the last occurrence of a specified element
if it exists, potentially true, if the elements removed.
So let's look at some of this in code now.
Going to create a new class in our collections project.
We'll call this one key example.
Here again, we're using the collection test class to put the array tick and the linked list through
the standard collections methods, i.e. the call to do stuff with collection.
So if you run this now.
You can see the output this demonstrates firstly that like a link sent, a link list allows knows,
but not that the array deck doesn't end.
Unlike sets and lists, both the linked list and the array deck allow duplicate elements.
But let's add a method to this class now, we're going to test some of the methods.
At 10:00 here.
So the methods testing, firstly, the insertion methods add and offer.
The key retrieval methods are tested also with element and peak.
These methods don't remove elements from the Q Rosyth a bit further with testing the retrieval and removal
methods poll and remove these methods return the element that was immediately removed from the Q So
we need to put some code in our main method so we can actually test this.
And you can see the kind of better there that just invokes the method we've just posted in testing the
methods with an array deck in a linked list that's run this.
Right, so that's how I put the scoring back up.
Let's make a bit of space here, so they attempt to add no to the erratic withholding and allow Poder
exception, as you can see there on line fifty two.
So I can see the stack trace, which shows you how the offer methods implemented a stick.
So basically atlast method called or offer last method call to offer method call.
And then we've got our exception.
But note also how the add an offer method operations add elements to the tail of the queue in both cases.
There's no other method to test tech methods.
Well below our last minute in this class.
Well, at this import.
That is this method works with both a dick and a little list, and you can say we've got various calls,
they're going to push method, the element that adds an element to the head of the queue, the opposite
of add an offer using a push there, a pop.
Easy at first off, a first and last of the last we've got Tavaris calls there to get the first blast
was using the peaks, the poles and the removes.
So let's actually add some code to test this new method.
That, of course, needs to be added to our main method, so we'll get back to that.
Just this one here.
OK, that's a new code.
And you can see the code there online, 37 that I've had it.
So if we run this.
So this airport demonstrates that these methods allow the debt to be either or both of the following
at the same time, AQ first in, first out processing or Steck last in, first out processing.
So in the last three videos I've reviewed the list, the Q and the deck interfaces and the implementing
classes, a released array deck and linked list.
In the next video, we'll be reviewing the last type of collection, which is the only type that doesn't
implement the collection interface.
That's the map.
See you in the next video.